# Work is Play

> Work is Play.
> Pairing is Caring.
> 
> - Tim Jarratt

Listen, I've had some good jobs. I've also had some bad jobs. There is one simple fact that separates the good jobs from the bad.

Every single good job made me feel like I was having a good time. Work was playful, a joy. Even in the stressful moments, there was camaraderie, and support. Bad jobs are just an endless grind.

# What makes a good job ?

There are a few necessary preconditions for this to be possible. 

1. What's expected of you is clear
1. You have what you need to do your job
1. You have the opportunity to do your best every day
1. In the past seven days you've received recognition for good work
1. Someone at work cares about you as a person
1. Someone at work encourages your development
1. Your opinions seem to count
1. The mission or purpose of the company makes you feel your work is important
1. Your coworkers are committed to doing quality work
1. You have a best friend at work
1. In the past six months you've talked to someone about your progress
1. In the past year you've had opportunities to grow and learn

Now, not every job can deliver on all of these, but the more it does, the better your experience will be.

# What makes a good game ?

Intuitively, we all know what makes a good game, but it can be hard to put it into words. Luckily, Bernard Suits did this for us in the 70s. As quoted by C Thi Nguyen recently in [the New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/25/podcasts/transcript-ezra-klein-interviews-c-thi-nguyen.html) we have this definition

> To play a game is to voluntarily take on unnecessary obstacles for the sake of making possible the activity of overcoming them

While nearly all of us need to have a job to pay our bills and survive, it should be obvious that we are taking on obstacles through choice. We could choose some boring, mindless job, but instead we choose something that challenges and stimulates us, for the purpose of growing as individuals. Clearly the stakes are higher when lives are on the line, should you work in the Emergency Room or Urgent Care, or if you're maintaining a production system that hundreds of thousands of people depend upon, but the choice is still there to rise to the occasion and overcome the challenge.

In a recent article on [Winnable and Unwinnable Games](https://cutlefish.substack.com/p/tbm-229-winnable-and-unwinnable-games) John Cutler, breaking down the differences between good and bad games. From a product management or game development point of view, there's a lot to learn here, but let's focus on what makes a good game.

> Consider the things that make a good game. Good games have 

1. Clear, attainable goals, that players understand
1. Maintain a balance of difficulty
1. Timely feedback and rewards, boosting player motivation
1. Engaging gameplay mechanics captivating players and sustain(ing) their interest
1. Signs of small victories or incremental progress ... 
1. Meaningful choices that impact the outcome
1. Immerse players in a compelling environment or narrative
1. Calibrate progression and learning curves, promoting mastery over time
1. Variety in challenges ... (to) keep players engaged
1. Social interactions, such as competitive or cooperative play
1. Accessibility in terms of difficulty and controls
1. High replayability ensures the game remains fresh and exciting for repeated plays
